23-08-24
Topics to stufy in kubernetes: GCP kubernetes engine
pod -ephemeral and 
1.Architrecture of kuber.- https://medium.com/cloud-native-daily/a-comprehensive-kubernetes-overview-unleash-the-power-of-kubernetes-dc3e2e3d5630
2.Pods- kubctl get ns

3.Kubernetes consist of 2 main- 1.Several major components comprise the control plane
-the API server, the scheduler, the controller-manager, and etcd. 

a. API Server- the front end of kubernetes control plane, api server updates supports, scalling and other kinds of lifecycle orchestration by
providing APIs to various type of applications. clients must be able to access API server form outside of the cluster because it serves as gateway.

b. Scheduler- it is responsible for assigning the pods to the worker node according to the availiblity of the resources and contraints.
it ensures the utilization of resources and distribute the workload across the cluster

c. Control Manager- The controller manager watches over the cluster’s desired state and takes necessary actions to maintain that state.

d. etcd- a distributed key-value storage system for keeping the cluster state consistent (etcd)

Worker Node/ Slave- consist of various component comprise of - kubelet, kube-proxy, container runtime egine, pods.

a.Kubelet- an agent that communicates with the control plane to ensure the containers in a pod are running
The kubelet ensures that the desired state of the containers, as defined by the master node, is maintained.

b.Kube Proxy: Kube Proxy is responsible for network proxying and load balancing. 
It enables communication between services and pods by routing network traffic to the appropriate destination, 
ensuring connectivity within the cluster.


-These core Kubernetes components ensure containers are running with the necessary resources in sufficient numbers

-namespace
2.Deployments: manages the set of pods to run an application workload.
- insatll tenable application for deployment
- kubectl create namespace tenable
-kubectl get ns
-to check yaml file in cluster
-kubectl get ns -o yaml tenable

-netstat -ntulp

Commands in Kubernetes:
1. kubectl get pod
2. kubectl describe pod podname
3. kubectl run redis --image=redis
4. kubectl get pod -o wide (for more details of pod)
5. kubectl run redis --image=redis --dry-run=client -o > redis-definiton.yml file -(creating yaml file in client site not on actual cluster 
so we can test it carefully.
6. kubectl edit pod change name- use to change name in yaml file for the pods.
7. kubectl create -f redis-defination.yml
6.
Statefull set and deployments-
what is mountpath in linux?
Services: 
 types of service: 1. clusterIp, 2. NodePort, 3.Loadbalancer
- kubectl get svc

Topic- Labels & Selectors:
Topic - Taints and Tolerance
8.
9.
10.
